Let's keep adding onto the block controls component.
There's another component word press provides called The Block alignment component.
This is different from the text alignment the text alignment will align the text while the block alignment
will move the block itself.
You can have multiple pieces of content inside a block the block alignment will move everything to the
left center or right.
It can even allow four columns in your design to get started.
Let's open the index file for the recipe block these structure the WP dot editor and grab the block
alignment toolbar component next.
Let's add the attribute the name will be block alignment with a type of string and default of wide
unlike text.
Moving an entire block will require some CSF properties.
Luckily WordPress will generate some classes for you to handle moving the block.
You'll see what those looked like in just a moment.
The wide class is the default class for most blocks.
We have the component and we have the attribute ready.
Now it's time to add the toolbar to the block.
Scroll down to the block controls component you have the freedom to order your toolbars in any order
you like.
You can place the block alignment toolbar before or after the text alignment toolbar.
I'm going to place it before the text alignment toolbar add the component block alignment toolbar just
like the previous toolbar will need to add the value ends on change.
Attributes.
Let me show you how to find the values for these attributes.
Go to the Gutenberg repository.
Navigate to the packages slash editors directory.
This is where code strictly related to the editor is placed inside the source slash components directory.
You will find all the components used within the editor.
You'll find the block alignment toolbar component here.
There may or may not be a read me file not everything in Gutenberg is documented in these cases.
You should dig into the index code.
There are a couple of things going on here but the first place you want to look into is the function
itself.
Remember components are just JavaScript functions even though they're written like each team out there
are some parameters with default values.
You can safely ignore those the ones we're required to set are the value end on change parameters.
Back inside the script set the value to props dot attribute stop block alignment the on change attribute
will be set to an arrow function that accepts in the new value
use the props object and called the set attributes function Update The Block alignment attribute we've
created the toolbar the last step to all of this is to apply it to the block.
Here's where things change the lock alignment changes the block itself the block in the editor is more
complex than the block that appears on the front end it's a bit more difficult to apply changes to the
block when we add controls most of it in these cases we'll have to use a special function right above
the edit function add the property get edit wrapper props.
This will be set to an arrow function that will accept in the props object two things worth noting here.
This function will automatically be triggered whenever a change to the block is made.
This includes the additional settings and features WordPress adds to your block.
It's not just our attributes.
The second thing is that the props object is slightly different than before.
Previously you would access your attributes through the prompt start attributes object.
This time you can directly access the attributes through the props object alone.
With that being said we only need the block alignment attribute.
Let's D structure this and grab the block alignment property like so this function expects us to return
any changes to its properties.
We can change any of the block properties.
It's not just our own.
With that being said we only want to change the alignment.
I'm going to create a conditional statement that will check if the block alignment is set to left right.
Werfel
these are all the alignments available if the alignment is set to any of these values then will return
data dash a line block alignment
previously we would call a function to update a national view.
However since WordPress controls the block we can just return what we want to change and WordPress will
process everything.
You may be wondering how I found this value.
I'll show you soon enough but just keep following along.
Now that the attribute is properly updated we can begin to apply it to the block.
The great thing about Gutenberg is that the block will be updated visually automatically.
We don't need to make any further changes to the edit function.
Scroll down to the save function in the root div element Abdi class name attribute and set it to the
following a line prompts dot attribute stop block alignment
the class a line is provided by the theme we're using it starts with the phrase a line followed by the
position of the block there are four possible positions at the moment.
Wide left center and right wide is the default position which will make the block take up the full width
of the container.
Let's test this out save your changes in C D into the blocks directory then run the commands NPM run
Dev go ahead and refresh the page.
The block may be broken just added in again if you have to.
You should see the block alignment toolbar up here.
You should be able to select any of the alignments and see the block move accordingly.
Like I said before the blocks position is taken care of by WordPress.
All we have to do is notify WordPress of the change save your changes and try viewing the post on the
front end.
The block should appear correctly position if you were to view the element in the developer tools then
you should see the class a line applied to the div tag to the right.
The style should appear as you can see you don't have to do much to make it appear aligned to the left
or right.
Feel free to use the bootstrap C assess for your own themes.
All right before I finish this lecture I want to explain how I found out that you had to change the
data align property go back to the Gutenberg editor if you were to inspect the recipe block then you
won't see the data.
Align property you'll have to scroll up quite a bit to find it.
As you can see the data a line of property appears here and it has the position you selected to find
what values you can change.
You can search in one of two places you can search through the javascript code itself or look at the
elements generated by Gutenberg.
All right that does it for now.
In the next couple of lectures we'll continue exploring more features of Gutenberg.
I'll see you there.